# DevOps-Core-Practical-Project
QA DevOps Pathway Core Practical Project

# Pilots and Tier Random Assignment

# Task

I have chosen to base this project around imaginary pilots who fly in the online game Star Wars: Squadrons.  The application will randomly create pilot names and then assign them random tiers.  Tiers range from S being the highest possible tier (a very loose grading of pilot skill - aces if you will) to D Tier (novices/cadets).  

The app will comprise four services.  Service 1 acts as a Front End for Service 2 and 3.  Service 2 and 3 relate to the Pilot and Tier assignment categories.  Essentially each application assigns a random choice from a list of possible choices (in string format) for both the "Pilot" and "Tier" categories and then provides these to the Front End which in turn displays them using render templates.  The Front End then provides Service 4 with a combination of the strings generated by Services 2 and 3 in the form of a JSON.  Some conditional logic is applied - if a pilot has a certain name then he/she is automatically assigned a pre-determined tier which overwrites the randomly assigned one.  An additional message is also supplied depending on the tier rating.  All this is then relayed back to the front end and displayed.

# Project specs

1. Trello Board or equivalent
2. Application with a feature-branch model VCS
3. Application built through a CI server and deployed to a cloud-based virtual machine. 
4. Webhooks such that Jenkins rebuilds and redeploys the newest version of the application whenever the main branch is updated (i.e. a change to the codebase)
5. Porject uses Service-Oriented architecture: both containerisation and an orchestration tool.
6. An Ansible Playbook that provisions the environment needed for the application run.
7. A reverse proxy to make the application accessible to the user.

**List of Required Technologies**

Trello Board <br />
Orchestration Tool: *Docker Swarm* <br />
Version Control: *Git* <br /> 
CI Server: *Jenkins* <br />
Configuration Management: *Ansible* <br />
Cloud server: *GCP virtual machines* <br />
Reverse Proxy: *NGINX* <br />
Containerisation: *Docker* <br />

# Trello Board

I used a trello board during this project for planning and prioritisation of tasks.  Each week was treated as a seperate sprint with it's own backlog.

[Trello Board](https://trello.com/b/ufgHK3VC/pilot-tiers)

#  ERD

# Risk Assessment

# Description of services and Database
# Diagram of services and how the interact

# CDP (Continuous Deployment Pipeline)

Develop Build (inc Testing) Deploy description

# Testing Process and how it was incorporated into Continous Deployment

# Rolling Update

# Future Developments

# Acknowledgements




